# Syndrive - Accident Detection and Assistance App

These days, it is unlikely to find a person who gets out of their home without their cell phones in hand. Well, they rarely serve you the purpose of saving your lives. We have decided to unleash our potential to help the needy when they misfortunately meet with an accident. 

During a collision, for example, if the cell phone is on the dashboard of your car, then it would exert a huge impact on the mobile. Our app detects and measures this impact and if it goes beyond the threshold set in it, then it would inform the nearest hospital and ambulance services, as well as the user’s near and dear ones. However, we recommend the phone to be placed at the front panel on a stand, so that the accuracy of the measured impact is higher. **Perks:** you can enjoy using GPS too. 

There may be cases in which your mobile accidently slips off your hand and the impact goes beyond the threshold. To fix such issues, the app would always redirect the user to a screen where it would give a prompt to cancel the alarm and it would wait by default for 30 seconds for a response. The user has an additional option of changing the response time as required. 

When the prompt isn’t dismissed, the app would fetch the emergency contacts from the database and the current location of the user through GPS. Once the contacts are taken, messages would be sent to them about the accident. The GPS location would be used to locate the nearest hospital and to send notification to that hospital. All the details of the user such as name, address, blood group etc. would be attached along with the notification. The hospitals can access these details from the website we make from any web browser and send an ambulance to this location. Sending the details to the hospital would ensure that the paperwork and time required to identify the person and analyse their blood group is minimal or nil. 
